hey guys welcome to my channel today I'm
gonna teach you how to find the right
University for yourself
mus along there are three thousand two
universities in colleges and there is
also Canada Australia and so many
countries where you can study so today
is a very hands-on class on how to find
that right University how does sort
universities based on some criteria that
I've used when I was applying for my MBA
and master's programs in the United
States so take your computer or at least
your notebook and write things down
because they're very very practical in
the ideal world I would need you to do
the things that I'm asking you to do on
your laptop so you can start your
research right now let's do it
let's start number one you need to
decide what kind of program you're
applying to when I was applying to my
masters and am a program my main
criteria for university was that it
provides financial aid so the program
didn't really matter but I know
sometimes people are very specific I
want to do bachelors and science or I
want to do an MBA in a top university
and this is something you have to decide
for yourself so what is that program
that you're applying to once you have
decided what kind of program that is you
would need to use a very good website
called google.com you go there and you
look for rankings of universities that
have your program for example let's do
bachelor's in economics I'm gonna be
talking about us mostly in this course
so let's do bachelor's in economics USA
or ring King what we have here we have a
lot of different websites my favorite is
US News comm because they've done a
really good job
ringing almost everything that's
happening in the US doctors educational
programs like whatever you're looking
for there is also top universities
column which is a good website Financial
Times coms and I really like Melissa's
new US News column because I'm so used
to it and here we actually have best
global universities for economics and
business your goal is to have six
universities on your list that you're
gonna apply to two universities are your
dream universities and if you have a
high GPA if you're sure that your
application is strong enough then you
can consider the top ones like Harvard
or Stanford MIT then you have two
universities limba three and four that
you think you have good chances of
getting into for those universities I
would go lower in the ranking and maybe
go to like page number five and so for
example Ohio State University great
university ranking number 42 in the
whole world for bachelor's in economics
which is awesome okay and then
University of Southern California and
the number five and six would be your
safety universities if you're applying
to a bachelor's program that could
probably be community colleges like
Santa Monica College or Pasadena
Community College depends on your budget
depends on where you want to study but
if you're looking for universities with
full financial aid I would say you would
need to research at least like sixty
University this is six
0:16 universities and by research I mean
that you go to the university's website
and fill in a table that I'm gonna show
you right now so what is this magical
table that I'm talking about here you
see universities that have bachelors in
Business and Economics programs this is
a list of like six universities before
that we had like 40 because we were
researching a lot this is for one of our
students who we can totally use it so
number one Columbia University so you
have the name of your University number
two link to admissions sometimes you
forget something
you need a double check something and
you don't want to Google again and look
for this University and find the right
page on their website because their
websites are so so so confusing
sometimes and before you like find the
first ten universities you're gonna get
really confused so link to admission is
gonna save you a lot of time number
three acceptance rate and their GPA in
terms of acceptance rate again first two
universities could probably have like
five to fifteen percent acceptance rate
which means they're really
really competitive and if you have like
all six universities with five percent
acceptance rate good chances are you're
not starting your education next year
because your chances of getting accepted
might be really low if all the
universities are really competitive so
number one and two I would suggest like
being highly competitive then number
three and four aim for acceptance rate
of like thirty to forty percent
and number five and six I would say like
sixty percent plus just to you know be
on the safe side GPA some universities
would have like a minimum GPA but the
majority say oh like apply with any GPA
and would consider your and compare your
application to others it's a good
practice to ask a university or research
this information what is the average GPA
of a person who got accepted last year
so here we have for Columbia six percent
acceptance rate which is really low
which means six out of 100 people get
accepted which is like super low and GPA
3.8 but if we go down the list wells I
have safety universities here Penn State
number fifteen national universities
which is great acceptance rate fifty one
percent and I'd be average GPA is a
little over like three fifty five
minimum TOEFL if you're coming from a
foreign country and if you don't have at
least two years of education in English
in an english-speaking country then
there is any nine percent chance that
you would need to take either TOEFL or
IELTS which is the language test and
it's a very good practice to know what's
the minimum that you should aim for so
if you still want to have Columbia
University on your list you need a
target at least a hundred on your TOEFL
but again if you decide to drop Columbia
later
Berkeley's TOEFL minimum is eighty and
then 80 and Penn State so yeah it's
really important to assess your
abilities before you start picking
universities if your upper intermediate
then it's 80 if you're advanced then
it's like a hundred plus average SAT so
some universities we require SAT for
their bachelor's programs if you're
applying to masters or an MBA program if
it's related to economics tenants GMAT
if it's not related to economics it's
Jerry same for PhD programs
some universities especially the lower
ranking ones wouldn't even require any
tests TOEFL or IELTS only for
international students
so here again ask a university what's
the average SAT or GMAT or GRE they've
had intake so here we have 1510 and also
this code means when our student would
go to take her SAT she would put in the
code 2 1 1 6 and her grades will go
directly to the University so she
wouldn't have to do it again SAT Subject
sometimes
top universities require it and then
whenever they don't it's a good practice
to actually take them to improve your
and strengthen your application but
again have this column in your table of
where you would have this information
application deadlines very important
because if you miss it
sorry some universities require you to
apply as early as November and that's
early application deadline and if you're
aiming for a top university I would aim
for early application deadline which
could be as early as November 1st so if
I wanted to start my tuition at Columbia
in September 2019 I would have had to
apply in November 2018 tuition and
living costs very important especially
if you're an international student look
for international fees don't forget to
include accommodation and tuition so
here it's 68 thousand dollars a year
all-inclusive but guess what if you're
looking for financial aid this is that
column that you would need to fill in so
go to a financial aid section and
research whether they have financial aid
for international students and sometimes
the universities would cover everything
including your accommodation and food
and then some notes maybe you know
somebody at a university or maybe there
is something you particularly like so
start filling in this table right now I
hope you've wrote everything down I hope
you created a template with me together
so start researching your universities
and start filling the information once
you have like 20 or 30 universities you
would start crossing out universities
that you don't like that are maybe too
expensive or don't have financial aid
required TOEFL score is too high I'm
gonna teach you more about financial aid
in my next videos if you're annoying yet
subscribe to this channel hit subscribe
please comment down below with the
program that you're applying to is it
masters in economics is it bachelor's in
science or you still don't know please
let me know in comments below so could
it refer to them in my next videos thank
you so much for watching this video up
to the very end please hit like if you
enjoyed this content and I will see you
soon in the next videos bye